In this tutorial, we will make a Hello World example in freeRTOS.
To access the assignment,
you go through the Coursera web page and to assignment one folder.
Here, you download the freeRTOS zip file,
which will be used throughout the whole course.
To access a project, you extract the freeRTOS zip file in your Windows Explorer.
So, this will extract all the files into project template.
Now, you go into the freeRTOS folder.
Here, you go into the freeRTOS folder again,
and here you have the demo folder.
Please go into this folder.
Here, go into the WIN32 MSVC folder.
So, here we can start the WIN32 vcxproj file which will execute Visual Studio.
So now, Visual Studio will import all the files that are relevant to the project.
All these file can be seen to the left in the Solution Explorer.
To compile the project,
you simply click the play button in the panel above.
This will compile all the files that are included in the project template.
Once that is done,
it will execute the project.
So, as we can see when we execute the project,
we have just a simple blank window,
because we haven't actually added any tasks to the project.
Our next job is to add a Hello World task to the project.
To do so, we go to the main function in main.c.
Here we see the task scheduler function.
Now, we don't have any tasks to find.
So, that is what we need to do next.
To do so, we create a void function called HelloTask.
Inside this function, we create an infinite loop.
We make this infinite loop print out the statement, Hello World.
Just like this.
But we're not done yet.
We also need to add the period to the task.
That we do by adding a delay to the task.
We add the delay of one second or thousand milliseconds.
Now, we need to add the task to freeRTOS.
That is done by first creating a task handle.
So, we use the function xTaskHandle HT,
and then we need to add the task to freeRTOS.
So we create the task,
we pass the Hello World function, HelloTask.
We create a name for the task, HelloTask.
Then we set the stack size,
and the function is very small,
so we add the smallest possible stack size that we can set.
We don't pass any parameters of task,
but we add a priority of one.
Then we pass the reference to the task handle.
Now, the only thing we need to do,
is to recompile the task and see what happens.
So, we pressed the play button again.
Now, we can see the task is printing out Hello World every second,
and this was what the task was supposed to do.
Watching this video, you have now learned how to create
a simple periodic Hello World task in freeRTOS.